>> Ifill: KEY PROVISIONS OF THE
PATRIOT ACT EXPIRE AFTER A ROCKY
WEEKEND IN THE SENATE.
WILL IT PROTECT AMERICANS'
PRIVACY?
OR PUT THEM AT GREATER RISK?
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
DECISION DAY AT THE SUPREME
COURT, AS THE JUSTICES WEIGH IN
ON WORKPLACE DISCRIMINATION AND
FREE SPEECH ON FACEBOOK.
PLUS, NEW CANDIDATES FOR
PRESIDENT, AND HOW THE CAMPAIGN
IS INFECTING CAPITOL HILL.
IT'S "POLITICS MONDAY," WITH AMY
WALTER AND TAMARA KEITH.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: SKIES CLEARED ACROSS
MUCH OF TEXAS TODAY, IN THE
FIRST RESPITE FROM DEADLY STORMS
SINCE MEMORI DAYAL WEEKEND.
BUT FLOODING FROM DAYS OF HEAVY
RAIN KEPT SPREADING.
SOUTH OF HOUSTON, WATERS FROM
THE ENGORGED BRAZOS RIVER FORCED
ROAD CLOSURES AND OVERWHELMED
FARM LAND.
THE FLOODS HAVE KILLED AT LEAST
31 PEOPLE IN TEXAS AND OKLAHOMA.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
WAS FLOWN TO BOSTON TODAY, AFTER
BREAKING HIS LEG DURING A BIKE
RIDE IN FRANCE YESTERDAY.
HE FLEW ON A U.S. MILITARY
TRANSPORT PLANE, HEADED BACK TO
THE STATES.
HE HAD BEEN HOSPITALIZED IN
GENEVA, SWITZERLAND, NEAR WHERE
THE ACCIDENT OCCURRED.
KERRY WILL HAVE SURGERY IN
COMING DAYS, BUT STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS SAID IT
WILL HAVE NO EFFECT ON THE
ONGOING IRAN NUCLEAR TALKS.
>> HE WILL BE ACTIVELY ENGAGED
IN THESE NEGOTIATIONS ON THE
TIMETABLE THIS MONTH THAT WE
HAVE TALKED ABOUT.
NOW WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE, I JUST
DON'T HAVE MORE DETAILS.
WE NEED TO-- HE NEEDS TO HAVE
THE OPERATION, THEN HIS DOCTORS
WILL DISCUSS WITH HIM WHAT THE
RECOVERY WILL LOOK LIKE.
>> Ifill: THE DEADLINE FOR
REACHING AN AGREEMENT WITH IRAN
IS NOW JUNE 30.
IN NIGERIA, A RUNAWAY OIL TANKER
TRUCK KILLED AT LEAST 69 PEOPLE
WHEN IT CRASHED INTO A CROWDED
BUS STATION AND EXPLODED.
POLICE SAID THE TRUCK WAS
SPEEDING WHEN IT WENT OUT OF
CONTROL.
THE BLAST SET OFF A FIRE THAT
CONSUMED A DOZEN BUSES IN THE
SOUTHEASTERN CITY OF ONITSHA.
ISLAMIC STATE SUICIDE BOMBERS
ATTACKED A POLICE BASE IN
WESTERN IRAQ TODAY, KILLING AT
LEAST 41 POLICE AND SHIITE
MILITIAMEN.
IT HAPPENED AT A POLICE STATION
JUST NORTH OF RAMADI, THE
PROVINCIAL CAPITAL OF ANBAR
PROVINCE.
ISLAMIC STATE CAPTURED THE CITY
LAST MONTH, USING A COORDINATED
ASSAULT SIMILAR TO THE ONE
TODAY.
AN AMERICAN HELD BY SHIITE
REBELS IN YEMEN HAS BEEN
RELEASED.
FREELANCE JOURNALIST CASEY KOHMS
HAD BEEN HELD FOR TWO WEEKS.
HE WAS LET GO AFTER MEDIATION BY
OMAN'S GOVERNMENT.
KOHMS WAS FLOWN THERE AND
GREETED BY THE U.S. AMBASSADOR,
WHO SPOKE TO OMANI TV IN ARABIC.
>> (translated): I AM
HAPPY TO
HAPPY TO THANK OMAN'S LEADER,
SULTAN
THANK OMAN'S LEADER, SULTAN
QABOOS, FOR HIS HELP AND
COOPERATION.
THIS AMERICAN IS UNDER THE
SUPERVISION OF OMANI DOCTORS AT
A MILITARY HOSPITAL IN MUSCAT
TONIGHT AND MY SINCERE THANKS TO
ALL OMANI CITIZENS.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, A FRENCH
HOSTAGE IN YEMEN, ISABELLE
PRIME, APPEARED IN AN ONLINE
VIDEO, APPEALING FOR HELP.
THE WORLD BANK CONSULTANT WAS
KIDNAPPED IN FEBRUARY.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, GOOGLE
ANNOUNCED IT'S MAKING PRIVACY
CONTROLS EASIER FOR ITS ONE
BILLION USERS TO FIND AND
UNDERSTAND.
THEY'LL NOW BE GATHERED IN ONE
ACCOUNT AREA, RATHER THAN SPREAD
ACROSS MANY PORTIONS OF GOOGLE'S
WEBSITE.
ACCOUNT HOLDERS WILL ALSO BE
ABLE TO RUN A CHECK-UP TO SEE
WHICH SERVICES ARE GATHERING
INFORMATION ABOUT THEM.
THE SUPREME COURT ISSUED SEVERAL
RULINGS TODAY, INCLUDING A
JUDGMENT ON A TUNISIAN MAN
BANNED FROM THE U.S. FOR MINOR
DRUG POSSESSION.
THE COURT RULED HE CANNOT BE
DEPORTED FOR HAVING FOUR PILLS
OF THE STIMULANT ADDERALL.
WE'LL EXPLORE THE DAY'S MAJOR
DECISIONS LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 30 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
18,040.
THE NASDAQ ROSE ABOUT 13 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED FOUR.
AND, THE FUNERAL DATE FOR BEAU
BIDEN, ELDEST SON OF VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN, IS NOW SET FOR
THIS SATURDAY.
HE DIED OF BRAIN CANCER OVER THE
WEEKEND, AT THE AGE OF 46.
THE WHITE HOUSE HAS ALSO STARTED
A MEMORIAL PAGE ON ITS WEBSITE,
WHERE VIEWERS MAY EXPRESS THEIR
SYMPATHIES TO THE VICE PRESIDENT
AND HIS FAMILY.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
PRIVACY VERSUS SECURITY: WHAT
HAPPENS IF THE GOVERNMENT CAN'T
COLLECT PHONE RECORDS?
FACEBOOK THREATS, AND WEARING
RELIGIOUS GARB AT WORK.
TWO MAJOR RULINGS AT THE SUPREME
COURT.
CHINA'S APPARENT MILITARY
EXPANSION RATTLES THE U.S. AND
ITS ALLIES.
A DRAMATIC VOYAGE FOR A GROUP OF
REFUGEES.
THE WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS WITH
AMY WALTER AND TAMARA KEITH.
AND A LOOK INSIDE HOW THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP RECRUITS.
INTRA-PARTY WRANGLING, THE
SENATE ALLOWED THREE KEY
PROVISIONS OF THE POST-9/11
PATRIOT ACT TO EXPIRE AT
MIDNIGHT.
THE THREE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY PROGRAMS TARGETED BY
KENTUCKY REPUBLICAN RAND PAUL
PERMITTED:
THE NSA TO COLLECT SWEEPING BULK
COLLECTION OF PHONE DATA...
THE AGENCY TO USE ROVING
WIRETAPS TO TRACK TERROR
SUSPECTS...
A SO-CALLED LONE WOLF PROGRAM TO
TRACK SUSPECTS OUTSIDE TERROR
NETWORKS.
TO EXAMINE WHAT HAPPENS NOW, WE
TURN TO CHARLIE SAVAGE, WHO
COVERS NATIONAL SECURITY FOR THE
"NEW YORK TIMES."
SO, CHARLIE, TELL US AS
SUCCINCTLY AS YOU CAN WHAT THIS
LAPS WE SAW DRAMATICALLY HAPPEN
LAST NIGHT, WHAT DOES IT
ACTUALLY MEAN?
>> WELL, IT MEANS THAT RIGHT NOW
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN NEARLY 14
YEARS, WHEN AMERICANS PICK UP
THE PHONE AND CALL SOMEBODY,
CALL THEIR FRIEND OR LOVER OR
BUSINESSMAN, A BANK, A PIZZA
PLACE, THE N.S.A. IS NOT TAKING
A LOG OF THAT CONTACT AND ADDING
IT TO ITS GOVERNMENT DATABASE TO
BE STORED AND ANALYZED FOR THE
NEXT FIVE YEARS, AND IT ALSOy3
INVESTIGATORS FIND A
NEWLY-SUSPICIOUS NUMBER, THEY
CAN'T JUST CHECK THEIR OWN
DATABASE TO SEE IF ANYONE ON
U.S. SOIL HAS BEEN IN CONTACT
WITH THAT NUMBER.
THEY HAVE TO USE A SUBPOENA TO
GO TO THE PHONE COMPANY AND SEE
IF THEY'VE SEEN A TRACE OF THAT
NUMBER BEFORE AND WAIT FOR THAT
RESPONSE.
>> Ifill: SO THE SUBPOENA IS
THE BACKUP PLAN BUT IT TAKES A
LOT LONGER FOR THIS TO HAPPEN,
PRESUMABLY?
>> SOMEWHAT LONGER.
UNDER THE PATRIOT ACT THEY HAD
TO STILL GO TO THE SPY COURTXd D
GET PERMISSION TO CHECK THE
DATABASE SO IN THAT SENSE IT
WASN'T AN INSTANTANEOUS THING
AGAIN.
>> Ifill: THE WHITE HOUSE SAID
EVERY DAY LAST WEEK THIS WAS A
BAD IDEA TO LET IT LAPS AND THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL SAID A SERIOUS
LAPS, SO WAS THERE A DISTINCT
IMPRESSION LEFT FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION THAT THIS WOULD
LEAVE AMERICA A MORE DANGEROUS
PLACE.
WHAT EVIDENCE DO WE HAVE TO
SUPPORT THAT?
>> WHAT WE WERE HEARING OUT OF
THE ADMINISTRATION WAS PRIMARILY
FOCUSED ON THE LOG NOT THE PHONE
BOOK PROGRAM WHICH IS BASED ON A
CREATIVE INTERPRETATION OF ONE
OF THOSE LAWS IN WHICH A FEDERAL
APPEALS COURT SAID IS NOT
LEGITIMATELY BASED ON THAT LAW.
IT'S THE ADMINISTRATION IS
FOCUSED ON WHAT THEY CALL THE
NON-COV.
THEY HAVE BEEN RAISING A LOT OF
SCARY RHETORIC ABOUT HOW WE
WON'T BE ABLE TO TRACK
TERRORISTS AND THIS IS REALLY
IRRESPONSIBLE AND SO FORTH ON
THE PART OF CONGRESS.
THAT'S BEEN POLITICAL LANGUAGE
FOR A POLITICAL PURPOSE WHICH IS
TO PRESSURE OPPONENTS OF THE
BILL IN CONGRESS TO BACK DOWN.
OPERATIONALLY, IF YOU TALKED TO
PEOPLE INSIDE THE GOVERNMENT WHO
ARE ACTUALLY CHARGED WITH
CARRYING OUT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS, IT'S PROBABLY
SOMEWHAT OVERSTATED BECAUSE
THERE'S A VARIETY OF TOOLS THEY
CAN USE TO FILL THIS GAP.
FOR ONE THING, ALL THREE LAWS
HAVE A SO-CALLED GRANDFATHER
PROVISION THAT SAYS THEY DON'T
EXPIRE, THEY LAST FOREVER.
IT'S FOR AN INVESTIGATION THAT
HAD ALREADY BEGUN BEFORE JUNE 1.
AMONG THE OTHER THINGS, THE
F.B.I. HAS AN OPEN-ENDED
INVESTIGATION INTO ALL THINGS
AL QUAIDA AND, SO, REALLY, THEY
COULD USE IT AS LONG AS THEY
WANT FOR THAT KIND OF
COUNTERTERRORISM INVESTIGATION,
AND THEY CAN ALSO YULES ORDINARY
CRIMINAL TOOLS AS WELL LIKE
GRAND JURY SUBPOENAS THAT DO THE
SAME THING AND COME WITH
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT RULES AND
RESTRICTIONS.
>> Ifill: WHAT EVIDENCE DO WE
HAVE IN THE 14 YEARS OF THIS LAW
AND THESE PROVISIONS' EXISTENCE
THAT THEY HAVE SUCCESSFULLY
THWARTED ANY PARTICULAR ATTACKS
OR SUCCESSFULLY BROUGHT ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS THAT LED TO THAT?
>> NOW YOU'RE FOCUSED ON THE
BOOK PHONE RECORDS PROGRAM
>> Ifill: RIGHT.
THAT PROGRAM BEGAN IN
OCTOBER 2001 SECRETLY AS PART OF
THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S POST
9/11 SPYING AND BOOK COLLECTION
DATA PROGRAMS WHICH WE LATER
LEARNED WAS CALLED THE STELLAR
PROGRAM AND STARTING IN 2006 THE
ONE COMPONENT WHICH SUCKS IN ALL
RECORDS OF AMERICAN PHONE CALLS
WAS BROUGHT UNDER THE PATRIOT
ACT BUT FOR THE FIRST FIVE YEAR
OF EXISTENCE SAT THERE AS AN
ASSERTION OF RAW, PRESIDENTIAL
POWER.
SO IT'S BEEN AROUND 14 YEARS.
ONCE IT WAS FULLY REVEALED IN
LEAKS BY ED SNOWDEN TWO YEARS
AGO, IT WAS STUDIED BY SEVERAL
INDEPENDENT GOVERNMENT PANELS
THAT HAD ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
THEY LOOKED AT THE REPORTS, AT
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERED
SUCCESS STORIES AND CONCLUDED IT
HAD NEVER THWARTED A TERRORIST
ATTACK.
IT HAD BEEN A USEFUL TOOL.
INVESTIGATOR SAID IT HELPED
FLUSH OUT INVESTIGATIONS.
IF THEY SAW NO ONE HAD BEEN IN
CONTACT WITH A SUSPICIOUS
NUMBER, THAT BROUGHT PEACE OF
MIND BURKS THE ONLY PIECE OF
PERMANENT INFORMATION IS IT LED
INFORMATION TO A SAN DIEGO MAN
WHO DONATED SEVERAL THOUSAND
DOLLARS TO A TERRORIST GROUP IN
SOMALIA, BUT NO EVIDENCE THE MAN
HAD BEEN PLATTING A TERRORIST
ATTACK.
SO THE APOCALYPTIC RHETORIC THAT
WE WOULD BE ATTACKED DOESN'T
SEEM TO BE BOL BOLSTERED ABOUT W
IT FUNCTIONED.
>> Ifill: HOW IS THE U.S.A.
FREEDOM ACT DIFFERENT?
>> IT WOULD EXTEND THE LAWS
WHICH EXPIRED SUNDAY AND MONDAY
NIGHT AND WOULD CONTINUE ON FOR
ORDINARY USES AND SIX MONTHS
AFTER IT BECAME LAW WOULD BAN
BULK COLLECTION OF PHONE RECORDS
AND CREATE A NEW COURT ORDER TO
ALLOW THE GOVERNMENT TO QUICKLY
QUERY PHONE RECORDS HELD AT THE
PHONE COMPANIES AND ANALYZE
LINKS ACROSS PHONE RECORDS THAT
ARE HELD ONE BY AT&T, ONE BY
VERIZON, AND ALLOW THEM TO
QUICKLY COORDINATE THOSE AND DO
THE SAME LINK ANALYSIS OR
CHAINING AMONG CONTACTS WITH
PEOPLE THAT TAKE DO WITH THE
CURRENT PROGRAM IF THEY HELD THE
RECORDS THEMSELVES.
SO TRANSITION TO A PROGRAM WHERE
THE GOVERNMENT CAN MORE OR LESS
DO THE SAME THING BUT THE BULK
RECORDS WILL NOT BE HELD IN
GOVERNMENT HANDS.
>> WE'LL BE WATCHING TO SEE IF
THAT SHOE DROPS.
CHARLIE SAVAGE, "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE DIVIDED SUPREME
COURT WAS MOSTLY UNITED TODAY ON
TWO HIGH-PROFILE DECISIONS, ONE
INVOLVING WORKPLACE
DISCRIMINATION AND THE OTHER
ABOUT THREATS MADE ONLINE.
OUR JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT
STORY.
>> Brown: BOTH CASES ENDED IN
LOPSIDED DECISIONS FROM THE HIGH
COURT.
IN ONE, JUSTICES RULED IN FAVOR
OF A YOUNG MUSLIM WOMAN WHO WAS
REJECTED FROM WORKING AT THE
CLOTHING STORE, ABERCROMBIE &
FITCH, BECAUSE SHE WEARS A
HIJAB, OR HEADSCARF.
AND IN THE OTHER, THE COURT
OVERTURNED THE CONVICTION OF A
MAN WHO HAD POSTED THREATENING
LANGUAGE AGAINST HIS EX-WIFE ON
FACEBOOK.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS THESE
TWO IMPORTANT CASES IS MARCIA
COYLE WITH THE "NATIONAL LAW
JOURNAL."
WELCOME BACK, MARCIA.
LET'S START WITH THE HEADSCARF
CASE.
REMIND US OF THE FACTS.
>> THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION SUED
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH ON BAFFLE OF
SAMANTHA ELOF SAYING THEY HAD
VIOLATED THE LAW WHICH PROHIBITS
DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF
BELIEFS AND PRACTICES.
SHE APPLIED FOR A JOB IN THE
TULSA, OKLAHOMA STORE, WEARING A
HEADSCARF.
SHE DID NOT SAY THAT WAS THE
RELIGIOUS REGIONS BUT THE HIRING
MANAGER SOUGHT INFORMATION AS TO
WHETHER IT VIOLATED THE DRESS
CODE, THE LOOK POLICY.
>> Brown: WHICH IS HOW ONE IS
SUPPOSED TO LOOK.
>> EXACTLY.
SHE WAS TOLD IT DID ANT SHOULD
NOT HIRE MS. ELOF.
MS. ELOF WON IN THE TRIAL COURT,
GOT A JURY AWARD, BUT A FEDERAL
APPEAL COURT REVERSED IT SAYING
SHE HAD THE BURDEN TO TELL
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH THAT SHE
NEEDED AN ACCOMMODATION FOR HER
RELIGIOUS BELIEFS AND EMPLOYERS
CANNOT BE HELD LIABLE UNLESS
THEY HAVE ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE OF
THE NEED.
THE SUPREME COURT DISAGREED.
>> Brown: THE SUPREME COURT
OVERRULED THAT OVERRULING TO SAY
THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO
ACCOMMODATE HER WAS IN FACT A
CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATION.
>> AN UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT
PRACTICE.
THE COURT SAYS BASICALLY TO
PREVAIL INTENTIONAL
DISCRIMINATION CLAIM AS THIS WAS
A JOB APPLICANT OR EMPLOYEE HAS
TO SHOW ONLY THE NEED FOR AN
ACCOMMODATION WAS A MOTIVATING
FACTOR IN THE EMPLOYERS'
DECISION, NOT THAT THE CLOIR HAD
KNOWLEDGE OF THE NEED.
>> Brown: WE HAD ONE OF THE
KEY PASSAGES FROM JUSTICE SKIIA
HE WROTE THE RULE BASED ON THE
FAILURE TO ACCOMMODATE RELIGIOUS
PRACTICE IS STRAIGHTFORWARD.
AN EMPLOYER MAY NOT MAKE AN
APPLICANT'S RELIGIOUS PRACTICE
CONFIRMED OR OTHERWISE A FACTOR
IN EMPLOYMENT DECISIONS.
>> RIGHT.
HE EVEN GAVE AN EXAMPLE OF AN
EMPLOYER WHO SUSPECTS, THINKS,
IS NOT CERTAIN THAT A JOB
APPLICANT IS AN ORTHODOX JEW,
WHO MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO WORK ON
SATURDAYS.
IF THAT APPLICANT NEEDED AN
ACCOMMODATION AND THE EMPLOYER
DECLINED TO HIRE THAT APPLICANT
IN ORDER TO AVOID GIVING AN
ACCOMMODATION, THEN THAT'S A LIE
VILATION OF TITLE 7, EVEN IF
IT'S AN UNSUBSTANTIATED
SUSPICION.
>> Brown: FAST FORWARD, ABER
ABERCROMBIE SAID IT'S CHANGING
ITS POLICIES ANYWAY.
WHAT ABOUT BROADER APPLICATION.
>> I THINK YOU COULD CLASSIFY
THIS HAS BROADER PROTECTION FOR
RELIGIOUS PRACTICES.
GOES BEYOND MUSLIMS.
THE OTHERS WHO HAVE PHYSICAL
ATTRIBUTES THEY MAY HAVE
AFFECTED HIRING AND FIRING, YOU
MAY NOT USE THE LOOK POLICIES
THAT HAVE BEEN USE FORD A LONG
TIME AS PRETEXT FOR
DISCRIMINATION.
>> Brown: Facebook,
INTERNET, SPEECH ONLINE --
>> VERY DIFFERENT CASES.
>> Brown: THE FACTS OF THIS
CASE.
>> ANTHONY, AFTER HIS WIFE LEFT
HIM TAKING THEIR TWO CHILDREN
AND HE LOST HIS JOB, HE STARTED
PUTTING ON HIS Facebook SITE
SOME VERY VIOLENT, VICIOUS POSTS
ABOUT HOW HE WOULD KILL HER, HOW
HE WOULD SHOOT UP THE
KINDERGARTEN CLASS, HOW HE WOULD
KILL AN F.B.I. AGENTS WHO CAME
TO INVESTIGATE THE WIFE'S
CONCERNS ABOUT THE Facebook
POST.
HE WAS PROSECUTED AND CONVICTED
UNDER A FEDERAL LAW THAT MAKES
IT A CRIME TO TRANSMITT A
COMMUNICATION IN INTERSTATE OR
FOREIGN COMMERCE THAT THREATENS
BODILY INJURY OR HARM TO
ANOTHER.
HE SERVED THREE YEARS IN PRISON.
HE APPEALED HIS CONVICTION
ARGUING, ONE, THAT WHAT HE SAID
ON Facebook WAS REALLY
CATHARTIC IN THE NATURE OF RAP
LYRICS PROTECTED BY THE FIRST
AMENDMENT AND, IMPORTANTLY, THE
LOWER COURT GAVE -- USED THE
WRONG STANDARD TO CONVICT HIM.
THE LOWER COURT SAID ALL THE
PROSECUTION HAD TO SHOW IS A
REASONABLE PERSON VIEWING THE
Facebook POST WOULD PERCEIVE
THEM AS ACTUAL THREATS.
>> Brown: AND TODAY THE COURT
LOOKING AT THAT STATUTE SAID
THAT WAS THE WRONG STANDARD.
>> YES.
>> Brown: IT SAID THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE TO SHOW THIS
PERSON HAD INTENT TO DO HARM.
>> CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS WROTE
THE OPINION AND DISAGREED WITH
THE LOWER COURT AND MR. ALNIS
WHO SAID THE PROSECUTION HAD TO
PROVE THAT HE SUBJECTIVELY
INTEND TO HARM EACH PERSON HE
TALKED ABOUT.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS SAID THE
STANDARD USED BY THE LOWER COURT
IS REALLY ONE USED IN CIVIL
CASES.
THE CRIMINAL CASES REQUIRE
SOMETHING MORE.
THEY REQUIRE A GUILTY MIND, AN
AWARENESS OF WRONGDOING.
SO HE SAID THE INTENT HERE THAT
THE PROSECUTION HAS TO SHOW IS
THAT THE TRANSMISSION OF THE
COMMUNICATION HAD THE PURPOSE OF
ISSUING A THREAT OR THAT THE
DEFENDANTENT HAD KNOWLEDGE THAT
IT WOULD BE VIEWED AS A THREAT.
>> Reporter: AND THE COURT DID
NOT GO FURTHER, RIGHT, TO DECIDE
THIS ON FIRST AMENDMENT GROUNDS.
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN -- THAT'S
STILL THE TERRITORY THAT'S
UNKNOWN, RIGHT IS, HOW MUCH
SPEECH IS ALLOWED ONLINE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THIS IS VIEWED AS POTENTIALLY A
HUGE FIRST AMENDMENT CASE.
THE THE COURT SPECIFICALLY LEFT
IT OPEN, AS IT WILL DO, IF IT
CAN FIND A NON-CONSTITUTIONAL
WAY TO RESOLVE THE CASE, IT
WILL.
>> Brown: IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
DECIDE THE BIG CONSTITUTIONAL
ISSUES.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT THE CHIEF
JUSTICE SAID.
WE CAN RESOLVE THIS ON THE
INTERPRETATION OF THE CRIMINAL
LAW ITSELF.
>> Brown: SO VERY BRIEFLY, IN
TERMS OF THIS PARTICULAR CASE,
THIS FELLOW COULD, IN FACT,
STILL BE -- I MEAN HIS
CONVICTION COULD BE UPHELD?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY UNKNOWN
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN, WHETHER
THE GOVERNMENT WOULD TRY TO
RETRY HIM.
HIS CONVICTION HAS BEEN
OVERTURNED.
HE SERVED HIS TIME.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING HE'S BACK
IN JAIL ON UNRELATED CHARGES, SO
IT LEAVES IT OPEN.
AND THEY SAID THE COURT'S NEW
TEST IS ONLY GOING TO CREATE
ADDITIONAL CONFUSION AND CHAOS.
>> Brown: MARCIA COYLE WITH
THE "NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL,"
THANK YOU.
>> PLI PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO ASIA,
AND DISPUTES OVER TINY ISLANDS
IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA THAT ARE
DOMINATING DEFENSE SECRETARY
ASHTON CARTER'S VISIT TO THE
REGION.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT WILLIAM
BRANGHAM REPORTS.
>> Brangham: THE SECRETARY'S
ASIA-PACIFIC TOUR TOOK HIM TO
VIETNAM TODAY, BUT CHINA, AND
ITS RECENT MOVES AT SEA, WERE
NEVER FAR FROM MIND.
>> THE UNITED STATES OPPOSES
MILITARIZATION AND THE CREATION
OF TENSIONS IN THE SOUTH CHINA
SEA, EVEN THOUGH WE ARE NOT A
CLAIMANT TO THE SOUTH CHINA SEA,
THEY SHOULDN'T JUST TRY TO
ESTABLISH THAT BASED ON PULL
EVIDENCE AND PUSHING PEOPLE OUT
OF THE WAY.
IF THEIR CLAIMS ARE LEGITIMATE,
PEOPLE WILL REALIZE THEM.
>> THE CLASH OF CLAIMS FOCUSED
ON THE SPRATLY ISLANDS WHERE
CHINESE ARE RAPIDLY BUILDING
REEFS INTO MAN MAID ISLANDS.
RECENT U.S. NAVY VIDEO SHOWS
DREDGING WORK AND THE
CONSTRUCTION OF AIR STRIPS AND
HARBORS ON THE SPRATLYS.
AT A SECURITY CONFERENCE IN
SINGAPORE YESTERDAY, A CHINESE
ADMIRAL DEFENDED THE LAND
BUILDING.
>> (translated): THESE
CONSTRUCTIONS ARE WELL WITHIN
THE SCOPE OF CHINA'S SOVEREIGNTY
AND ARE JUSTIFIED, LEGITIMATE
AND REASONABLE.
THEY DO NOT AIM TO POSE A THREAT
TO ANOTHER COUNTRY OR AFFECT THE
FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION.
>> Brangham: BUT EVEN AS BEIJING
DENIES HOSTILE INTENT, PENTAGON
OFFICIALS SAY SURVEILLANCE
FLIGHTS HAVE SPOTTED MOBILE
ARTILLERY SYSTEMS ON THE
ISLANDS.
THEY'VE SINCE BEEN REMOVED OR
HIDDEN.
AND LAST WEEK, CHINA'S NAVY
WARNED A U.S. SURVEILLANCE PLANE
TO LEAVE THE AREA, IN A SIGN OF
GROWING SENSITIVITY TO AMERICAN
SURVEILLANCE.
A TABLOID OWNED BY THE RULING
COMMUNIST PARTY EVEN DECLARED
THAT WAR WITH THE U.S. IS
"INEVITABLE," UNLESS WASHINGTON
BACKS DOWN.
BACK IN HANOI TODAY, SECRETARY
CARTER MAINTAINED THE UNITED
STATES WON'T BE INTIMIDATED...
>> NO ACTIONS BY ANY PARTY WILL
CHANGE THE UNITED STATES'
BEHAVIOR.
WE WILL FLY AND SAIL AND OPERATE
WHEREVER INTERNATIONAL LAW
PERMITS, AND THAT WILL REMAIN
UNCHANGED.
>> Brangham: AT THE SAME TIME,
THE U.S. IS URGING VIETNAM AND
OTHER ALLIES TO CURB SOME OF
THEIR OWN ACTIVITIES IN THE
DISPUTED WATERS, AS CARTER SAID
SATURDAY, IN SINGAPORE.
>> THERE SHOULD BE AN IMMEDIATE
AND LASTING HALT TO LAND
RECLAMATION BY ALL CLAIMANTS.
WE ALSO OPPOSE ANY FURTHER
MILITARIZATION OF DISPUTED
FEATURES.
>> Brangham: REPUBLICAN SENATOR
JOHN McCAIN, CHAIR OF THE ARMED
SERVICES COMMITTEE, HAS ALSO
BEEN VISITING THE REGION, AND
VOICING HIS OWN CONCERNS.
>> WE ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE A
CONFLICT WITH CHINA BUT WE CAN
TAKE CERTAIN MEASURES WHICH WILL
BE DISINCENTIVES TO CHINA FOR
THEM TO CONTINUE THESE KIND OF
ACTIVITIES.
>> Brangham: THOSE MEASURES
INCLUDE EFFORTS TO SHORE UP
REGIONAL MILITARIES, SUCH AS
GIVING $18 MILLION TO HELP
VIETNAM BUY U.S. PATROL BOATS.
JOINING US NOW TO DISCUSS THE
ESCALATING TENSIONS ON THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA AND WHAT ROLE THE U.S.
SHOULD PLAY IS
KENNETH LIEBERTHAL.
HE WAS SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR ASIA
ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
IN THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION,
AND NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
BROOKINGS INSTITUTION.
AND MICHAEL AUSLIN, A RESIDENT
SCHOLAR OF ASIAN STUDIES AT THE
AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE,
HE ALSO WRITES A COLUMN FOR THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU FOR BEING
HERE.
KENNETH LIEBERTHAL, I'D LIKE TO
START WITH YOU FIRST.
HOW SIGNIFICANT ARE CHINA'S
ACTION NOW?
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY MORE THAN A
FEW ACRES OF SAND IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE SEA.
>> IT IS BUT IT'S SOMETHING LESS
THAN MOVING POPULATIONS OFF
LAND.
IT'S NOT THE OCCUPATION OF THE
SEDATIN LAND, NOTHING LIKE THAT.
BUILDING PLATFORMS IN THE C I
THINK SO IN PART TO REASSERT
CHINA'S CLAIMS TO DISPUTED
TERRITORY BUT ALSO POTENTIAL
MILITARY USE IN THE FUTURE.
I THINK THE REAL DANGER WILL BE
IF THEY PUT A LOT ON THESE
ISLANDS THAT GIVE THEM
ESPECIALLY AN AIR FORCE
CAPABILITY THAT MAY LEAD THEM TO
DECLARE WHAT'S CALLED AN AIR
DEFENSE IDENTIFICATION ZONE OVER
THE C.
OVER THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
THEY HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO
BECOME MORE WORRISOME.
>> Brangham: WHAT DOES CHINA
WANT, MIKELE?
>> I THINK CHINA'S TRYING TO
GIVE THE BASIS TO EXTEND
TERRITORIAL CLAIM AND SAY THIS
IS TERRITORY THAT COMES WITH
12-MILE TERRITORIES IN THE
OCEANS AND THE INTENTIONS IN THE
SKY AS WELL AND MAKING IT CLEAR
CHINA IS THE MOST INVESTED LAND
POWER SO TO SPEAK IN THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA.
WHAT KEN SAID ABOUT THE
MILITARIZATION OF THE ISLANDS
AND UNFORTUNATELY SEEMS TO BE
HAPPENING, WE SAW AIR STRIPS,
REPORTS OF ANTI-ARTILLERY OR
ANTI-AIRCRAFT WEAPONRY, THE
PROBLEM IS NOT SIMPLY THEY'RE
BUILDING THEM AND FOR RESEARCH
PURPOSES AS THEY SAID BURKS FROM
THE GET-GO THEY'RE DESIGN FOR
POWER PROJECTION PURPOSES TO
ALLOW CHINA TO EXTEND THROUGHOUT
THE REGION.
>> Brangham: KENNETH
LIEBERTHAL, SECRETARY CARTER
ARGUED CHINA IS BREAKING THE
RULES.
CHINA SAID WE'RE JUST DOING WHAT
OTHER REGIONS IN -- NATIONS IN
THE REGION HAVE DONE AND THE
LAND IS OURS TO DO AS WE PLEASE.
WHAT ARE THE RULES GOVERNING
THIS?
>> THE RULES ARE NOT CLEAR.
CHINA IS CORRECT IN SAYING IT IS
BUILDING ON FEATURES THAT OTHERS
HAVE BUILT ON SIMILAR
FEATURES -- TAIWAN, VIETNAM,
PHILIPPINES IN THE PAST, SO
CHINA IS PLAYING CAMPUP IN A
MAJOR WAY AND EXCEEDING WHAT
OTHERS HAVE DONE.
SECRETARY CARTER IS CALLING FOR
A HALT TO ALL OF THIS, EVERYONE
TAKE A DEEP BREATH TO SEE IF WE
CAN COME TOON TO
AVOID CONFLICT AND LEAD TO JOINT
RESOURCES IN THE REGION AND KEEP
THIS FROM BEING SOMETHING THAT
DIVIDES THE REGION IN A SERIOUS
FASHION.
>> Brangham: SENATOR McCAIN
SAYS THE U.S. HAS TO DO MORE TO
CONTAIN CHINA'S ACTIONS.
SHOULD WE BE DOING MORE AND,
PRACTICALLY SPEAK, WHAT SHOULD
WE BE DOING?
>> WE SHOULD HAVE DONE MORE
EARLIER ON.
WE'RE PLAYING CATCH-UP.
THIS HAS BEEN SLOW ROLLING FOR
YEARS.
CHINA HAS BEEN SLOWING TAKING
PIECES OF TERRITORY IN THE SOUTH
CHINA SEA, STARTED IN THE
1990s, DID IT A FEW YEARS AGO.
OUR ALLIES AND PARTNERS HAVE
BEEN WARNING US ABOUT IT AND NOW
WE'RE SUDDENLY WAKING UP TO THE
FACT.
I THINK THAT'S THE BIGGEST
PROBLEM IS BOTH SIDES ARE
BACKING THEMSELVES INTO CORNERS
AND SOMEBODY WILL HAVE TO BLINK.
I THINK THE U.S. CAN DO MORE BY
SUPPORTING ALLIES AND BEING
PRESENT.
IT IS A GOOD THING TO GIVE AID
TO OUR SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS
WHO WOULD LIKE TO BE PARTNERS
BUT WE SHOULD HAVE DONE ATE LONG
TIME AGO.
THE TREND LINE IS IMPORTANT.
WE'VE IGNORED IT, HOPE WE
WOULDN'T DEVELOP IN THAT WAY AND
NOW WE'RE MAKE UP LOST GROUND AS
THE CHINESE BUILD.
>> Brangham: KENNETH?
THE FEATURES THAT THE CHINESE
ARE BUILDING FEATURES ON ARE
EXTREMELY VULNERABLE, BECOME
INDEFENSIBLE IF THE CHINESE
WANTED TO DO THINGS OFF FINLAND.
WE NEED TO FOCUS ON FREEDOM OF
NAVIGATION IN THE AREA, YOU
KNOW, IT'S KEEPING WITHIN THE
BOUNDARIES OF WHAT WE THINK ARE
REALLY CRITICAL FOR OUR
INTERESTS, AND WE SHOULD EXTEND
ASSISTANCE TO OUR FRIENDS AND
ALLIES HERE TO IMPROVE THEIR
MARITIME AWARENESS SO THEY KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON OUT THERE.
AND WE SHOULD ENCOURAGE
NEGOTIATIONS.
BUT THAT'S ABOUT AS FAR AS WE
SHOULD GO.
I DISAGREE THAT WE'RE PLAYING
CATCH-UP AND WE'VE LET THIS
FESTER WITHOUT PAYING ANY
ATTENTION TO IT.
>> MICHAEL, THE WORLD LEADERS,
CHINESE LEADERS, AMERICAN
LEADERS SAY WE DON'T WANT THIS
TO EVOLVE IN A CONFLICT.
BUT IN A FRAGILE AREA WHERE
TERNTIONS ARE HIGH AND BUN PILOT
IS TALKING TO ONE CAPTAIN,
SPIEMS SOMETIMES DIPLOMACY GETS
THROWN OUT.
DO YOU WORRY THIS COULD FLAIR UP
INTO SOMETHING BIGGER?
>> THAT'S THE BIGGEST WORRY WE
FACE.
WE'VE ALREADY HAD A COLLISION
BETWEEN A CHEED AND AMERICAN
PLANE, THE CHINESE PILOT DIED
AND AMERICANS CRASH LANDED.
WITH THE STAKES BEING HIGHER,
THE FACT OF HOT-HEADED PILOTS IN
THE AIR OR CAPTAINS ON THE SEA
COULD MAKE IT VERY DIFFICULT, I
THINK, POTENTIALLY, TO CONTROL
SOMETHING THAT STARTS TO SPIRAL
OUT OF CONTROL.
LOOK, THIS IS NOT THE SOVIET
UNION AND THE UNITED STATES IN
THE COLD WAR WHERE THERE WERE
LOTS OF MECHANISMS FOR CRISIS
RESOLUTION.
WE DON'T HAVE THE SAME SETS OF
WORKING RELATIONS WITH THE
CHINESE, AND WHILE I'M SURE THAT
NO ONE IN BEIJING WANTS TO SEE A
WAR, THE FACT IS WHEN THINGS ARE
HAPPENING VERY QUICKLY ON THE
GROUND, IT MAY BE HARD TO
CONTROL.
VERY QUICKLY TO KEN'S POINT
ABOUT WHAT WE SHOULD BE DOING.
I THINK THE ISSUE IS IT'S A
QUESTION OF BALANCE OF POWER IN
THE SEA CHANGING.
IT'S NOT JUST THAT OTHERS HAVE
CLAIMS AS WELL BUT WHEN CHINA
BRINGS ITS POWER TO BEAR, WHEN
IT CHANGES THE FACTS ON THE
GROUND OR IN THE SEA SO TO
SPEAK, IT HAS LONG-LASTING
EFFECTS.
KEN IS TRYIN RIGHT.
WE DON'T TAKE SIDES ON
TERRITORIAL ISSUES BUT CARE
ABOUT THE BALANCE OF POWER AND
THAT'S WHERE OUR FRIENDS AND
ALLIES SAY WE HAVE BEEN DILATORY
AND NOT PAID AS MUCH ATTENTION
AND HAVEN'T ACTED IN WAYS EARLY
ON TO SEND STRONG SIGNALS ABOUT
HOW WE WANTED IT TO PROCEED
PEACEFULLY NOW WE HAVE THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
CALLING THESE CHINESE ACTIONS
AGGRESSIVE.
>> Brangham: MICHAEL AUSLIN,
KENNETH LIEBERTHAL, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: TONIGHT A PASSENGER
SHIP CARRYING 444 PEOPLE SANK IN
THE YANKSY RIVER IN SOUTHERN
CHINA.
SEVEN PEOPLE HAVE BEEN RESCUED
SO FAR.
RESCUE OPERATIONS ARE STILL
CONTINUING.
>> Ifill: THE PLIGHT OF
MYANMAR'S ROHINGYA MUSLIMS
FINALLY GRABBED HEADLINES
RECENTLY, AFTER THOUSANDS WERE
TRAPPED AT SEA.
MALAYSIA AND VIETNAM HAVE SINCE
ALLOWED SOME OF THEM IN.
BUT, ABOUT 300 ROHINGYAS HAVE
ALREADY DIED AT SEA THIS YEAR.
AND THERE ARE REPORTS OF OTHERS
STILL STRANDED.
EARLIER TODAY PRESIDENT OBAMA
WARNED MYANMAR, THE COUNTRY
FORMERLY KNOWN AS BURMA, THAT IF
IT WANTS TO BECOME A SUCCESSFUL
DEMOCRACY, IT NEEDS TO TAKE ITS
TREATMENT OF THE ROHINGYA
MINORITY SEROUSLY.
WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK TONIGHT AT
THAT TREATMENT.
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS TRAVELED IN
MYANMAR'S RAKHINE STATE, AND
FILED THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: LIFE FOR THE
ROHINGYA COMMUNITY IS REJECTION.
SEGREGATED IN MYANMAR ARE
REGARDED AS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
LOOKING FOR ESCAPE.
STILL THIS WOMAN AND FAMILY
TRIBE FLED TO MALAYSIA ON A TRIP
WITH 400 OTHERS, A TRIP THAT
LASTED 50 DAYS AND WERE RESCUED
TWO WEEKS AGO.
WE GOT A HANDFUL OF RICE A DAY
AND HAVE TO SIT IN THE SAME
PLACE FOR THE WHOLE TRIP, IF YOU
MOVED YOU GOT BEATEN, SHE SAID.
"THE ENTIRE CREW WAS SO BRUTAL
SOME DAYS I WANTED TO JUMP INTO
THE SEA.
I WISHED I WAS DEAD.
IT WAS SO HARD ."
SHE LEFT MORE THAN A MONTH AGO.
"I'M SO WORRIED ABOUT HIM, I
THINK HE MUST BE DEAD.
I'M TERRIFIED FOR MY SISTER AND
THE FUTURE OF HER CHILDREN.
IT'S SO DIFFICULT FOR THEM HERE
HERE."
140,000 ARE LIVING IN CAMPS LIKE
THESE AND SEE THEIR EXISTENCE
LIKE LIVING IN A PRISON.
THAT IS THE ROOT OF THE PROBLEM
THAT IS PUSHING THEM INTO THE
CLUMPS OF THE TRAFFICKERS.
TRAFFICKERS WHO ARE KNOWN TO
THEM, ONE AGREED TO TALK TO US.
>> THERE ARE LOTS OF US BREAKERS
HERE.
WE'RE 150 POUNDS A PERSON WHEN
WE TAKE THEM TO THE BIG SHIP.
>> Brown: THIS MINORITY WITH
LITTLE ACCESS TO EDUCATION,
MEDICATION OR SANITATION IS
BEING CAPITALIZED ON AS THE
GOVERNMENT STILL REFUSES TO
CLASS SOME AS BURMESE.
>> I'M AFRAID AND WORRIED SOME
PEOPLE WHO DON'T FOLLOW OUR
PROGRAM AND WHO ARE REFUSING TO
APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP.
THIS IS A BIG PROBLEM.
>> BUT WHILE ROHINGYAS' HOMES
ARE GATED AND MOVEMENT
MONITORED, THE DESIRE FOR REAL
FREEDOM BESIDE THE SEA WON'T
FADE.
>> Ifill: JUST TODAY, THE NUMBER
OF CANDIDATES RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT REACHED AN EVEN DOZEN.
NINE REPUBLICANS AND THREE
DEMOCRATS HAVE FORMALLY LAUNCHED
CAMPAIGNS, WITH TWO
ANNOUNCEMENTS JUST SINCE FRIDAY.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE ONLY STORY
UNFOLDING THIS POLITICS MONDAY.
AND WE'RE JOINED, AS ALWAYS, BY
AMY WALTER OF THE "COOK
POLITICAL REPORT" AND TAMARA
WELCOME BACK.
MARTIN O'MALLEY, LET'S START
WITH HIM, PAMELA.
WHO IS HE APPEALING TO?
HE GAVE A VERY BIG -- LET'S
LISTEN TO IT -- A BIG ECONOMIC
SPEECH, MESSAGE.
>> A STRONGER MIDDLE CLASS IS
NOT THE CONSEQUENCE OF ECONOMIC
GROWTH!
A STRONGER MIDDLE CLASS IS THE
CAUSE OF ECONOMIC GROWTH!
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
AND TOGETHER AS ONE PEOPLE WE
MUST BUILD AN AMERICAN ECONOMY
THAT WORKS AGAIN FOR ALL OF US.
>> Ifill: REMIND PEOPLE WHO
MARTIN O'MALLEY.
>> HE WAS THE GOVERNOR OF
MARYLAND UNTIL RECENTLY IS
PITCHING HIMSELF AS A
PROGRESSIVE WITH EXECUTIVE
EXPERIENCE WITH HIS TIME AS
GOVERNOR.
HE'S ALSO PITCHING HIMSELF AS A
NEW GENERATION OF LEADER.
IT'S DRAWING A CONTRAST OF
HILLARY CLINTON WITHOUT PUTTING
TOO FINE A POINT ON IT.
HE'S 52 YEARS OLD, PLAYS GUITAR,
DID CAMPAIGN ANNOUNCEMENT ON
SNAP CHAT.
HE'S RIGHT BE THE YOUNG GUY.
INTERESTINGLY, ANOTHER
CANDIDATE, BERNIE SANDERS, WHO'S
ALSO IN THAT CASE, HAS CAPTURED
A LOT OF THAT YOUNG HIP VIBE,
EVEN THOUGH HE'S 20 YEARS OLDER.
>> Ifill: HOW IS MARTIN
O'MALLEY DOING WITH BERNE BERNL.
>> HE THINKS HE WILL BREAK
THROUGH BY A GENERATIONAL
DIFFERENCE THAT HE'S THE NEXT
GENERATION TO COME UP.
THESE TWO HAVE BEEN THERE FOR A
LONG TIME.
WE NEED A FE A NEW FACE.
THE QUESTION IS DOES HE MORE
CLINICALLY DECIDE TO GO AFTER
HILLARY CLINTON.
FROM THIS SPEECH, DOESN'T SEEM
LIKE IT.
I TOOK SORT OF A SIDE SWIPE
AGAINST HER AND SAID WE ALREADY
HAVE A CANDIDATE GOLDMAN SACHS
LIKES -- THEY LIKE A BUSH AND A
CLINTON.
WE DON'T LIVE IN A SOCIETY WHERE
WE PASS THE CROWN FROM ONE TO
THE OTHER.
THE CLINTONS ARE VERY CLOSE
WITHO MOLLY AND EVERYBODY ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE.
SO NOTHING NEW ABOUT THAT.
TO ME IT'S A QUESTION OF DOES HE
DECIDE HE'S GOING AFTER HER,
AGGRESSIVELY MAKE HIS CASE VERY
POINTEDLY.
COULD HAPPEN THAT HE HAS A
BREAKTHROUGH.
>> Ifill: IN SOUTH CAROLINA
TODAY WE LAW LINDSEY GRAHAM
WHO'S A LONG-TIME U.S. SENATOR
WHO DECIDED WHEY'S GOING TO RUN
FOR PRESIDENT AND DO IT BY
SAYING I HAVE MORE NATIONAL
SECURITY EXPERIENCE THAN THE
REST OF YOU.
LET'S LISTEN.
>> I'VE GOT ONE SIMPLE
MESSAGE -- I HAVE MORE
EXPERIENCE WITH OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY THAN ANY OTHER
CANDIDATE IN THIS RACE.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
THAT INCLUDES YOU, HILLARY.
I KNOW THE PLAYERS, I KNOW OUR
FRIENDS AND ENEMIES ALIKE, BUT
MOST IMPORTANTLY, LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN, THEY KNOW ME.
>> Ifill: I'M ALWAYS CURIOUS
ABOUT PEOPLE WHO GET IN A RACE
WITH TEN OTHER REPUBLICANS WHO
GO AFTER HILLARY FIRST AND
FOREMOST.
IS THERE ROOM IN THE FIELD AS WE
SEE IT NOW, TAMARA, FOR A
NATIONAL SECURITY MESSAGE?
>> HE SURE THINKS SO.
IN PART, HE'S THERE TO BE THE
ANTI-RAND PAUL, TO BE THE
ANTI-TED CRUZ.
HE WANTS TO GET IN AND DELIVER
THIS STRONG NATIONAL SECURITY
MESSAGE.
HE'S PITCHING HIMSELF AS READY
TO BE A COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
HE HAS JUST RETIRED AS A RESERVE
OFFICER, SERVED IN THE AIR FORCE
FOR A VERY LONG TIME.
HE SAID HE'S BEEN TO THE MIDDLE
EAST MORE TIMES THAN HE CAN
REMEMBER.
I THINK THAT THAT'S HIS PITCH.
HE REALLY WANTS TO MOVE THE
CONVERSATION IN THIS REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY AWAY FROM ISOLATIONISM
AND TALK ABOUT DEFEATING
I.S.I.S.
>> IT'S A GREAT TIME TO DO IT
WHEN REPUBLICAN PRIMARY VOTERS
ARE SAYING NATIONA NATIONAL SECS
OUR NUMBER ONE ISSUE ETCH AHEAD
OF THE ECONOMY.
THE PROBLEM IS THE OTHER SIDE OF
LINDSEY GRAHAM IS HE'S KNOWN AS
SORT OF, I DON'T KNOW, A
MODERATE, AN ACCOMMODATIONIST,
CERTAINLY TO THE LEFT OF A LOT
ON IMMIGRATION, SUPPORTED
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S SUPREME COURT
NOMINATIONS, IS TO THE LEFT ON
ISSUES LIKE CLIMATE CHANGE, SO
HE'S ALREADY STARTING IN SOME
WAYS AT A DEFICIT WITH SOME
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY VOTERS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE IOWA POLL
FROM THE DES MOINES REGISTER,
HIS APPROVAL RATINGS ARE ALREADY
VERY, VERY HIGH.
IN PART THAT'S WHAT A LOT OF
ACTIVISTS REMEMBER HIM FOR IS
BEING TOO LIBERAL FOR THEM.
>> HE HAS THE NICKNAME LINDSEY
GRAHAM, BECAUSE OF HIS POSITION
ON RANNESTY BECAUSE OF HIS
POSITIONS ON IMMIGRATION.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
PERSON WHO SAYS HE'S THE
ANTI-RAND PAUL.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE PERSON WHO
STIRRED THE SPOT THIS WEEKEND ON
CAPITOL HILL AND IS CONTINUING
TO DO IT TONIGHT.
RAND PAUL, SENATOR FROM KENTUCKY
WHO, AS WE LAST CHECKED, IS ALSO
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT AND HAD
THE OPPORTUNITY ON THE N.S.A.
SURVEILLANCE ISSUE TO MAKE HIS
POINT.
>> THIS IS WHAT WE FOUGHT THE
REVOLUTION OVER!
ARE WE GOING TO GIVE UP OUR
FREEDOM AND GO ALONG AND SAY
TAKE IT?
WELL I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE I
DIDN'T MORE.
I DON'T THINK THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO TAKE IT
ANYMORE!
>> SENATE SPEECHES ARE
DIFFERENT, ARE THEY NOT?
>> A LITTLE.
THIS HAS BEEN HIS ISSUE FROM THE
BEGINNING.
HE'S HOPING THE SENATE SPEECH
WILL GO VIRAL.
>> PUT IT ON SOCIAL MEDIA TO
MAKE SURE.
>> ABSOLUTELY, THAT EVERYBODY IS
GOING TO SEE IT HAPPENING.
HIS BIG GAMBLE IS THIS ISSUE IS
GOING TO HELP HIM EXPAND BASE OF
DONORS AND VOTERS IN THE
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY.
THE PROBLEM IS AMONG REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY VOTERS THIS ISSUE,
N.S.A. SECURITY, VERY POPULAR,
IT'S NOT UNPOPULAR, WHERE HIS
POSITION IS POPULAR IS VOTERS
UNDER AGE 35.
UNFORTUNATELY FOR HIM, NOT MANY
SHOW UP AND VOTE IN REPUBLICAN
PRIMARIES.
>> Ifill: DOES HE RUN AT ANY
RISK AT ALL, SAYING IT NICELY,
OF PICKING OFF THE OTHER
REPUBLICANS INCLUDING HIS
SEATMATE, SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
MITCH McCONNELL.
>> I THINK YOU COULD SAY THEY
ARE TICKED OFF RIGHT NOW.
HE TID NOT MAKE ANY FRIENDS IN
THE SENATE.
>> Ifill: MAYBE IT DOESN'T
MATTER.
>> YEAH, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
CONSEQUENCE IT HAS WITH
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY VORS.TE
THERE'S A WELL-WORN PATH RUNNING
AGAINST WASHINGTON.
HE IS DEFINITELY RUNNING AGAINST
THE BODY FROM WHICH HE WORKS.
>> Ifill: AN N.S.A. ISSUE, IS
THAT POLITICAL AT ITS ROOT, BUT
IS THERE SOMETHING HERE REALLY
ROOTED IN YOU MENTIONED THE
REPUBLICAN OPINION NOT ONLY
AMONG REPUBLICANS BUT THIS COLD
DISCOMFORT WITH GOVERNMENT?
>> THERE'S A DISCOMFORT WITH
GOVERNMENT AND BIG POLITICS IN
GENERAL.
BERNIE SANDERS IS ANYTHING BUT
CORPORATE.
LOOK AT HIM AND HIS CAMPAIGN.
AT THE SAME TIME, WE'RE AT A
DIFFERENT PLACE WHEN IT COMES TO
SECURITY ISSUES, THE CONCERN
ABOUT I.S.I.S., VIDEO
BEHEADINGS, ITS, THAT I THINK
VOTERS WERE IN A DIFFERENT PLACE
TODAY THAN THEY WERE BACK WHEN
RAND PAUL FIRST TALKED ABOUT
RUNNING AND HIS POSITIONS WERE
CONSIDERED A LITTLE MORE
POPULAR.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO SAY A WORD
AND BO BIDEN, VICE PRESIDENT'S
ELDER SON AND A RISING STAR IN
THE DEMOCRATIC FIELD AND STEPPED
AWAY FROM THE AMBITION AT A TIME
WE SEE A DOZEN PEOPLE RUNNING
FOR PRESIDENT, HE CHOSE NOT TO
RUN FOR SENATE WHEN HE WAS
ATTORNEY GENERAL BECAUSE HE WAS
PROSECUTING A BIG CASE.
HE WAS KIND OF UNIQUE IN THAT
RESPECT.
>> YES.
IT'S JUST -- FOR VICE PRESIDENT
JOE BIDEN, THIS IS THE SECOND
CHILD THAT HE'S HAVING TO SAY
GOODBYE TO AND, ALSO, I THINK A
PIECE OF HIS POLITICAL LEGACY
BECAUSE BO BIDEN WAS ABSOLUTELY
THE POLITICIAN HIS FATHER WAS
AND MAYBE MORE SO.
>> Ifill: AND AS WE SEE, IT'S
OBVIOUSLY ONE OF THESE THINGS
WHEN THERE'S BEEN AN INCREDIBLE
OUTPOURING ACROSS WASHINGTON AND
THE COUNTRY.
>> IT'S AN INTEREST WHERE
THERE'S A BIPARTISAN GREETING
AND YOU SAW IT YESTERDAY ON
TWITTER WHERE EVERY ELECTED
OFFICIAL, EVERYBODY INVOLVED IN
POLITICS COMING OUT AND GRIEVING
FOR THIS MAN WHO HAS LOST SO
MUCH.
>> OKAY.
AMY WALTER, "COOK POLITICAL
REPORT," TAMARA KEITH OF N.P.R.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK WITH AN
INSIDE LOOK AT THE ISLAMIC STATE
RECRUITING NETWORK.
BUT FIRST, IT'S PLEDGE WEEK ON
PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT, WHICH HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, WE
BRING YOU THE LATEST EDITION TO
OUR NEWSHOUR BOOKSHELF.
WE'VE LATELY HEARD A LOT ABOUT
ISLAMIC STATE'S ABILITY TO LURE
YOUNG PEOPLE TO THEIR CAUSE,
LEADING YOUNG MEN TO TAKE UP
ARMS AGAINST INFIDELS AND YOUNG
WOMEN TO BECOME BRIDES TO THE
FIGHTERS.
A FRENCH REPORTER CREATED A FAKE
IDENTITY TO BETTER UNDERSTAND
HOW THE RECRUITING HAPPENED, BUT
SHE GOT MORE THAN SHE BARGAINED
FOR.
SHE WRITES ABOUT IT IN A NEW
BOOK CALLED "IN THE SKIN OF A
JIHADIST."
THE NAME OF THE AUTHOR ON THE
BOOK JACKET IS ANNA ERELLE, BUT
THAT IS A PSEUDONYM TO PROTECT
HER IDENTITY, AND HER SAFETY.
WE CONDUCTED THE INTERVIEW
WITHOUT REVEALING HER FACE.
HARI SREENIVASAN EXPLAINS FROM
OUR NEW YORK STUDIO.
>> Sreenivasan: IT STARTED
WITH A SHARE ON Facebook OF
THIS VIDEO, A FAKE PROFILE NAMED
MELODY HAD FRIENDED ABU AND HE
SENT AROUND THE LATEST VIDEO
ABOUT HIS GUNS, HIS SUV, THE
MONEY AND GLAMOROUS LIFE HE HAD
AS A JIHADIST.
HE WAS BORN IN FRANCE, WENT TO
FIGHT INIHA JD'S BECAUSE NIA,
AFGD AND CHECHNYA AND NOW WAS A
TRUSTED LIEUTENANT OF THE LEADER
OF THE ISLAMIC STATE.
HE HAD TWO JOBS, FIGHT AND
RECRUIT.
WITHIN MINUTES, ABU SAW MELODY
HAD SHARED HIS VIDEO AND BEGAN
PRIVATE MESSAGING HER ON
Facebook.
>> AND HE ASKED ME IF I WAS IN
ISLAM AND IF I WANTED THE TO GO
TO SYRIA.
>> Sreenivasan: WITHIN THREE
DAYS, HE WAS ASKING MELODY TO
MARRY HIM, BEFORE EVEN SEEING
HER FACE, KNOWING SHE WAS ONLY A
CONVERT TO ISLAM.
>> THE ONLY REQUIREMENT IS WE
ARE BOTH MUSLIM AND YOU CANNOT
STAY IN YOUR COUNTRY, YOU HAVE
TO COME TO SYRIA.
IT'S THE ONLY COUNTRY TO BE A
MUSLIM.
IF NOT, YOU SHOULD STAY IN YOUR
OWN COUNTRY AND YOU WILL BURN IN
HELL BECAUSE YOU ARE NOT A GOOD
MUSLIM.
YOU HAVE TO COME HELP YOUR
BROTHER.
>> Sreenivasan: A FALSE
RELATIONSHIP CONTINUED ON
Facebook AND SKYPE.
>> IT WAS ABOUT THE RELIGION.
>> Sreenivasan: HE WOULD TALK
BADLY ABOUT THE WESTERN WORLD
AND U.S. AND THEN IN THE OTHER
BREATH WORRY ABOUT HIS LOOKS AND
HIS DESIRES.
HE CARED ABOUT HIS BOOKS.
>> HE LIKED PASSION AND
EXPENSIVE WINE.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE ONE
HAND HE RAILS AGAINST CAPITALISM
IN THE WEST AND ON THE OTHER
HAND WANTS YOU TO BUY HIM
EXPENSIVE COLOGNE.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY THE POINT.
IT'S HYPOCRITICAL BECAUSE THAT
IS CAPITALIST.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DAILY
INTERACTIONS BECOMES WHAT THE
AUTHOR CALLED A CONTROLLED
SCHIZOPHRENIA.
>> IN THE BEGINNING I SAID THERE
IS TWO PERSONS, ME AND MY
CHARACTER MELODY.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE MELODY EXISTS
AND MAYBE GO TO SYRIA.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE MAY BE
CASES WHERE GIRLS WHO HAVE FLED
TO JOIN I.S.I.S. AND BE JIHADIS
HAVE BEEN DOCUMENTED IN EUROPE
AND THE UNITED STATES.
>> I THINK WHEN IT WILL BE
FINISHED THEY WILL UNDERSTAND
THAT IT'S NOT A GAME, IT'S NOT A
COOL STUFF TO DO, IT'S HELL AND
ONCE YOU ENTER YOU CANNOT GO
OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: UNLIKE SOME OF
THOSE GIRLS, THE REPORTER AND
HER TEAM GOT OUT BEFORE GOING TO
SYRIA.
BUT THE PUBLICATION OF THE STORY
IN A MAJOR FRENCH MAGAZINE LAST
YEAR HAS MEANT DEATH THREATS TO
COLLEAGUES AT THE MAGAZINE AND A
FATWA, A RELIGIOUS EDICT,
AGAINST THE AUTHOR REQUESTING
HER DEATH BE SLOW AND PAINFUL.
DO YOU FEAR FOR YOUR SAFETY?
>> NOT TODAY BUT I'M VERY
CONCERNED FOR THE FUTURE BECAUSE
I HAVE A LOT OF GOOD PEOPLE OUT
WATCHING FOR ME.
BUT MAYBE IN ONE MONTH, SIX
MONTHS OR LATER, I WILL BE AN
EASY TARGET.
SO I'M REALLY AFRAID ABOUT THAT,
YEAH.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS ALL
WORTH IT?
>> FOR ME, YES.
WHY?
>> Sreenivasan: BECAUSE IT'S
MY JOB TO KNOW WHAT PEOPLE DON'T
KNOW AND TO UNDERSTAND.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS ALL
STARTED WITH A GUY SHOWING OFF
GUNS AND HIS CAR.
>> EXACTLY.
AND NOW HE'S DEAD AND ANOTHER
FIGHTER IS DEAD, TOO.
>> Sreevasanin: THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR SITTING DOWN WITH US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, A TRADITION STEEPED IN
ROMANCE IS COMING TO AN END
TODAY IN PARIS.
FOR YEARS, LOVERS FLOCKED TO ONE
OF THE CITY'S FAMOUS BRIDGES TO
ATTACH COLORFUL PADLOCKS, OR
LOVE LOCKS, AS A SYMBOL OF THEIR
DEVOTION.
BUT ALAS, 100,000 POUNDS OF
AMOUR WEIGHED THE BRIDGE DOWN
AND BECAME A SAFETY RISK, AND
THE MAYOR ORDERED THEM REMOVED.
YOU CAN STILL SEE PICTURES OF
THE DISPLAY, ON OUR HOME PAGE,
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.